README.md, before:

# Space Folding Puzzle Game

A puzzle game with space-folding mechanics built with Godot 4.

## Project Overview

This is a geometric puzzle game where players fold space to solve challenges. The game features:
- Grid-based puzzle solving
- Space-folding mechanics
- Test-driven development approach

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Godot 4.3 or higher
- Git

### Testing Framework

This project uses **GUT (Godot Unit Test)** v9.4.0 for automated testing.

#### Running Tests in Godot Editor
1. Open the project in Godot 4
2. Go to Project → Project Settings → Plugins
3. Enable the "Gut" plugin
4. Access the GUT panel from the bottom panel tabs
5. Click "Run All" to execute all tests

#### Running Tests from Command Line

To run tests from the command line (useful for CI/CD):

```bash
# Run all tests
godot --path . --headless -s addons/gut/gut_cmdln.gd

# Run tests in a specific directory
godot --path . --headless -s addons/gut/gut_cmdln.gd -gdir=res://scripts/tests/

# Run a specific test file
godot --path . --headless -s addons/gut/gut_cmdln.gd -gtest=res://scripts/tests/test_example.gd

# Generate JUnit XML report for CI integration
godot --path . --headless -s addons/gut/gut_cmdln.gd -gxml=test_results.xml
```

#### Writing Tests

Test files should:
- Be placed in `scripts/tests/` directory
- Extend `GutTest` class
- Have test methods starting with `test_`
- Use descriptive assertion messages

Example test structure:
```gdscript
extends GutTest

func test_something():
    assert_eq(5, 5, "Five should equal five")
```

See `scripts/tests/test_example.gd` for more assertion examples.

#### Available Assertions

Common assertions include:
- `assert_eq(a, b, msg)` - Assert equal
- `assert_ne(a, b, msg)` - Assert not equal
- `assert_gt(a, b, msg)` - Assert greater than
- `assert_lt(a, b, msg)` - Assert less than
- `assert_true(val, msg)` - Assert true
- `assert_false(val, msg)` - Assert false
- `assert_null(val, msg)` - Assert null
- `assert_not_null(val, msg)` - Assert not null
- `assert_almost_eq(a, b, epsilon, msg)` - Assert almost equal (for floats)

## Project Structure

```
SpaceFoldingPuzzle/
├── addons/
│   └── gut/              # GUT testing framework
├── scenes/
│   ├── main.tscn
│   ├── grid/
│   ├── player/
│   └── ui/
├── scripts/
│   ├── core/             # Cell, Grid, Fold classes
│   ├── systems/          # FoldSystem, UndoManager
│   ├── utils/            # GeometryCore, math utilities
│   └── tests/            # Unit and integration tests
└── assets/
    ├── sprites/
    └── shaders/
```

## Contributing

When contributing:
1. Write tests for new features
2. Ensure all tests pass before committing
3. Follow the existing code structure

## Resources

- [GUT Documentation](https://gut.readthedocs.io/)
- [Godot 4 Documentation](https://docs.godotengine.org/)

Commit message:

Add GitHub Actions CI/CD for GUT tests
Implement automated testing workflow that runs on all pull requests
and pushes to main branch. This ensures code quality and prevents
regressions by running the full GUT test suite automatically.

Features:
- Runs on Ubuntu 22.04 with Godot 4.3.0
- Uses chickensoft-games/setup-godot action (Oct 2025 best practice)
- Two-step process: asset import → test execution
- Disables leak checks to avoid false negatives
- Manual workflow dispatch option for on-demand testing
- Comprehensive test coverage of scripts/tests/ directory

Updated README.md with:
- CI/CD badge and documentation
- Workflow details and triggers
- Docker-based local testing instructions

Closes #[issue number if applicable]

README.md, after:

# Space Folding Puzzle Game

A puzzle game with space-folding mechanics built with Godot 4.

## Project Overview

This is a geometric puzzle game where players fold space to solve challenges. The game features:
- Grid-based puzzle solving
- Space-folding mechanics
- Test-driven development approach

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Godot 4.3 or higher
- Git

### Testing Framework

This project uses **GUT (Godot Unit Test)** v9.4.0 for automated testing.

### Continuous Integration (CI/CD)

[![GUT Tests](https://github.com/absent-mynd/puzzle/actions/workflows/gut-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/absent-mynd/puzzle/actions/workflows/gut-tests.yml)

All pull requests automatically run the full GUT test suite via GitHub Actions. Tests must pass before merging.

**Workflow details:**
- Runs on: Ubuntu 22.04
- Godot version: 4.3.0
- Test directory: `res://scripts/tests/`
- Trigger: All PRs and pushes to `main`

You can also manually trigger the workflow from the Actions tab in GitHub.

#### Running Tests in Godot Editor
1. Open the project in Godot 4
2. Go to Project → Project Settings → Plugins
3. Enable the "Gut" plugin
4. Access the GUT panel from the bottom panel tabs
5. Click "Run All" to execute all tests

#### Running Tests from Command Line

To run tests from the command line (useful for local CI/CD):

```bash
# Run all tests
godot --path . --headless -s addons/gut/gut_cmdln.gd

# Run tests in a specific directory
godot --path . --headless -s addons/gut/gut_cmdln.gd -gdir=res://scripts/tests/

# Run a specific test file
godot --path . --headless -s addons/gut/gut_cmdln.gd -gtest=res://scripts/tests/test_example.gd

# Generate JUnit XML report for CI integration
godot --path . --headless -s addons/gut/gut_cmdln.gd -gxml=test_results.xml
```

#### Running Tests Locally with Docker

To run tests in the same environment as CI:

```bash
# Run tests using the same Docker image as GitHub Actions
docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/workspace -w /workspace \
  barichello/godot-ci:4.3 \
  bash -c "godot --headless --import --quit && \
           godot --headless -s addons/gut/gut_cmdln.gd -gdir=res://scripts/tests/ -gexit"
```

#### Writing Tests

Test files should:
- Be placed in `scripts/tests/` directory
- Extend `GutTest` class
- Have test methods starting with `test_`
- Use descriptive assertion messages

Example test structure:
```gdscript
extends GutTest

func test_something():
    assert_eq(5, 5, "Five should equal five")
```

See `scripts/tests/test_example.gd` for more assertion examples.

#### Available Assertions

Common assertions include:
- `assert_eq(a, b, msg)` - Assert equal
- `assert_ne(a, b, msg)` - Assert not equal
- `assert_gt(a, b, msg)` - Assert greater than
- `assert_lt(a, b, msg)` - Assert less than
- `assert_true(val, msg)` - Assert true
- `assert_false(val, msg)` - Assert false
- `assert_null(val, msg)` - Assert null
- `assert_not_null(val, msg)` - Assert not null
- `assert_almost_eq(a, b, epsilon, msg)` - Assert almost equal (for floats)

## Project Structure

```
SpaceFoldingPuzzle/
├── addons/
│   └── gut/              # GUT testing framework
├── scenes/
│   ├── main.tscn
│   ├── grid/
│   ├── player/
│   └── ui/
├── scripts/
│   ├── core/             # Cell, Grid, Fold classes
│   ├── systems/          # FoldSystem, UndoManager
│   ├── utils/            # GeometryCore, math utilities
│   └── tests/            # Unit and integration tests
└── assets/
    ├── sprites/
    └── shaders/
```

## Contributing

When contributing:
1. Write tests for new features
2. Ensure all tests pass before committing
3. Follow the existing code structure

## Resources

- [GUT Documentation](https://gut.readthedocs.io/)
- [Godot 4 Documentation](https://docs.godotengine.org/)
